# Game Review for (Super Mario Bros. 2: Yoshi's Island)

## Details

### Game Title: Super Mario Bros. 2: Yoshi's Island

Super Mario Bros. 2: Yoshi's Island is a platform game developed and published by Nintendo for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES). It was also ported to the GameBoy Advance, which has a different name called Yoshi's Island: Super Mario Advance 3 and was re-released for the Nintendo 3DS and Wii U via Nintendo's Virtual Console on each system. Finally, the SNES version was included as a part of the Super NES Classic Edition and is also available in the SNES online app for the Nintendo Switch as part of the paid online service.

### Rating

My overall star rating for Super Mario Bros. 2: Yoshi's Island is a 4.75 out of 5 stars.

## Summary

To reunite baby Mario with his brother Luigi, who has been kidnapped by Kamek, the player controls Yoshi, a friendly dinosaur, through various levels while carrying Baby Mario. As a Super Mario series platformer, Yoshi runs and jumps to reach the end of a level while solving puzzles and collecting items. In a style new to the series, the game has a hand-drawn aesthetic and is the first to have Yoshi as its main character. The game introduces his signature abilities to flutter jump and produce eggs from swallowed enemies. Yoshi's Island is a 2D side-scrolling platform game. Its story begins as Kamek, a Magikoopa in care of young Bowser, attacks a stork delivering baby brothers Mario and Luigi. They succeed in kidnapping Baby Luigi, but Baby Mario falls out of the sky and onto the back of Yoshi, the friendly dinosaur, the player you control, and the protagonist of this single-player game. While the player controlled Mario and rode Yoshi in previous games, in Yoshi's Island, the player controls one of many Yoshis, which take turns traveling through 48 levels across six worlds to rescue Baby Luigi and reunite the brothers. In the Super Mario series platform game tradition, the player controls Yoshi with a two-button run and jump control scheme. The player navigates between platforms and atop some foes en route to the end of the increasingly difficult levels. Yoshi also collects coins to earn extra lives and retains his long tongue from Super Mario World. The game centers more on "puzzle-solving and item-collecting" than other platformers, with hidden flowers and red coins to find. Levels include mines, ski jumps, and "the requisite fiery dungeons". Every fourth level (two in each world) is a boss fight against a large version of a previous foe.

In a style new to the series, the game has a coloring book aesthetic with "scribbled crayon" backgrounds, and Yoshi vocalizes with its every action. Expanding on his "trademark tongue" ability to swallow enemies, Yoshi, as the focus of the game, was given a new move set: the ability to "flutter jump", throw eggs, and transform. The flutter jump gives Yoshi a secondary boost when the player holds the jump button. It became his new "trademark move", similar to that of Luigi in Super Mario Bros. 2. Yoshi can also pound the ground from mid-air to bury objects or break through soft earth, and use his long tongue to grab enemies at a distance. Swallowed enemies can be spat as projectiles immediately or stored for later use as an egg. The player individually aims and fires the eggs at obstacles via a new targeting system. The eggs also bounce off of surfaces in the environment. Up to six eggs can be stored this way, and will trail behind the character. Yoshi can also eat certain items for power-up abilities. For instance, watermelons let Yoshi shoot seeds from his mouth like a machine gun, and fire enemies turn his mouth into a flamethrower. Other power-ups transform Yoshi into vehicles including cars, drills, helicopters, and submarines. A star power-up makes Baby Mario invulnerable and extra fast.

While Yoshi is "virtually invincible", if hit by an enemy, Baby Mario will float off his back in a bubble while a timer counts down to zero. When the timer expires, Koopas arrive to take Baby Mario and Yoshi loses a life. The player can replenish the timer by collecting small stars and power-ups. However, Yoshi can also lose a life instantly if he comes into contact with obstacles such as pits, spikes, lava, and thorns. Similar to Super Mario World, the player can hold a power-up in reserve, such as a "+10 star" (which adds ten seconds to the Baby Mario timer) or a "magnifying glass" (which reveals all hidden red coins in a level). These power-ups are acquired in several minigames. At the end of each level, the Yoshi relays Baby Mario to the successive Yoshi. If the player perfects all eight levels in each world by finishing with all flowers, red coins, and full 30 seconds on the timer, two hidden levels will unlock. There are three save slots on the cartridge.

## Final Thoughts

Super Mario Bros. 2: Yoshi's Island is a fun platformer that's a lot of fun to playthrough. From the upbeat music, the cutesy artwork, and some very creative boss fights can be a very entertaining experience. It's a very bibrant game and is great if you're trying to play a fun in your solo playthrough. However, even though the controls are easy to pick up, the difficulty can curve at certain instances in the game and outright disrupt beginners at first. Also, in ordeer to 100% and complete this game, you have to collect all the collectibles not only in the main levels but in the bonus levels as well. The bonus levels are difficult and I would advise a big word of caution for those just starting out to just do a regular playthrough of the game first before trying to go for 100% completion. However, if you're looking for a challenge, look no further than 100% completion for Super Mario Bros. 2: Yoshi's Island. No matter which way you play the game, you'll have a great time.

## Additional Information

https://www.nintendolife.com/reviews/2009/07/super_mario_world_2_yoshis_island_retro

https://www.gamespot.com/reviews/yoshis-island-super-mario-advance-3-review/1900-2882007/
